Mithril update 2025-04-30 (#585)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2025-04-30-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2025-04-30-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week, the Mithril team created the pre-release for the `2517.0-pre` distribution, which provides support for Cardano node v.10.3.1 and signing ancillary files in the Cardano database snapshots using an IOG key, and includes various bug fixes and improvements. They also kept rolling out incremental certification of the Cardano database (also known as Cardano node database v2), which has been activated on the `release-preprod` test network.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team released the pre-release version of the `2517.0-pre` distribution. This version supports Cardano node v.10.3.1 and allows for signing ancillary files in the Cardano database snapshots using an IOG key. It also includes various bug fixes and improvements. The team continued implementing incremental certification for the Cardano database, also known as Cardano node database v2, which has been activated on the `release-preprod` test network.
```

> They finalized the proof of concept for the Mithril/ALBA aggregation proof system. They also completed the simplification of the aggregator’s command configuration and dependency injection. Additionally, they implemented a publisher abstraction for the publication of the signatures in the signer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The team has completed the proof of concept for the Mithril/ALBA aggregation proof system. They also simplified the configuration of the aggregator's commands and improved the dependency injection process. In addition, they implemented a publisher abstraction to facilitate the publication of signatures in the signer.
```

> Finally, the team worked on accelerating the compilation time of the Rust nodes and libraries, and kept refactoring the STM cryptographic library to improve clarity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, the team focused on speeding up the compilation time of Rust nodes and libraries, while continuing to refactor the STM cryptographic library for improved clarity.
```
